---
IP_KALI: 192.168.45.155
---
Check groups and xref with https://steflan-security.com/linux-privilege-escalation-exploiting-user-groups/:
```
id
```

Check for internal ports that didn't show up on nmap:
```
ss -tulpn
```

See which process is using a particular port:
```
netstat -anp | grep <port_number>
```

Search for SUID marked binaries:
```
find / -perm -u=s -type f 2>/dev/null
```

Look for writable directories:
```
find / -type d \( -perm -g+w -or -perm -o+w \) -exec ls -adl {} \;
```

Enumerate current user:
```
id
```

Enumerate all users:
```
cat /etc/passwd
```

An example of a passwd entry:
```
joe:x:1000:1000:joe,,,:/home/joe:/bin/bash
```
- Login Name: "joe" - Indicates the username used for login.
- Encrypted Password: "x" - This field typically contains the hashed version of the user's password. In this case, the value x means that the entire password hash is contained in the /etc/shadow file (more on that shortly).
- UID: "1000" - Aside from the root user that has always a UID of 0, Linux starts counting regular user IDs from 1000. This value is also called real user ID.
- GID: "1000" - Represents the user's specific Group ID.
- Comment: "joe,,," - This field generally contains a description about the user, often simply repeating username information.
- Home Folder: "/home/joe" - Describes the user's home directory prompted upon login.
- Login Shell: "/bin/bash" - Indicates the default interactive shell, if one exists.

Hostname:
```
hostname
```

Print information about the OS and release and version:
```
cat /etc/issue
```
```
cat /etc/os-release
```
```
uname -a
```

List system processes:
```
ps aux
```

Display network information:
```
ip a
```

Display routing tables:
```
routel
```

display active network connections and listening ports:
```
ss -anp
```

Firewall rules are sometimes stored in /etc/iptables directory:
```
cat /etc/iptables/rules.v4
```

List scheduled tasks:
```
ls -lah /etc/cron*
```
tar wildcard privesc: https://medium.com/@althubianymalek/linux-privilege-escalation-using-tar-wildcards-a-step-by-step-guide-55771aae063f

View current user's scheduled tasks:
```
crontab -l
```

List cron jobs using sudo reveals jobs run by root user:
```
sudo crontab -l
```

List installed applications:
```
dpkg -l
```

Search for every directory writable by the current user:
```
find / -writable -type d 2>/dev/null
```

List mounted filesystems:
```
cat /etc/fstab
```
```
mount
```
```
lsblk
```

List drivers:
```
lsmod
```
Get more information on a driver:
```
/sbin/modinfo [DRIVER NAME]
```